# Notes

+ A name is exported if it **begins with a capital letter**. Any "unexported" names are not accessible from outside the package.
+ The type comes **after** the variable name for function params.
+ When two or more consecutive named function parameters share a type, you can omit the type from all but the last.
+ A function can return **any number** of results.
+ A return statement without arguments returns the named return values. This is known as a **"naked" return**.
+ **Inside a function**, the := short assignment statement can be used in place of a var declaration with implicit type.
+ Variables declared without an explicit initial value are given their zero value.
+ Unlike in C, in Go assignment between items of different type requires an **explicit conversion**.
+ Constants are declared like variables, but with the const keyword.
+ An untyped constant takes the type needed by its context.
+ The init and post statements in for loop are optional.
+ **C's while** is spelled for in Go. 
+ Like for, the if statement can start with a short statement to execute before the condition.
+ **Switch**: Go only runs the selected case, not all the cases that follow. Go's switch cases need not be constants, and the values involved need not be integers.
+  Switch without a condition is the same as switch true. This construct can be a clean way to write **long if-then-else chains**. 
+ A **defer** statement defers the execution of a function until the surrounding function returns. The deferred call's arguments are evaluated immediately, but the function call is not executed until the surrounding function returns.
+ Deferred function calls are pushed onto a stack. When a function returns, its deferred calls are executed in **last-in-first-out order**.
